# 骨质疏松相关文献
*scihub下载网址：[https://gfsoso.99lb.net/](https://gfsoso.99lb.net/)复制文章链接粘贴到scihub搜索框即可下载*
## Wnt + osteoblasts
1. [Canonical Wnt Signaling in Differentiated Osteoblasts Controls Osteoclast Differentiation](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1534580705000973)\
IF:9.616 \
cite_number:1276 \
**summary:** \
Inactivation of β-catenin in mesenchymal progenitors prevents osteoblast differentiation; inactivation of Lrp5, a gene encoding a likely Wnt coreceptor, results in low bone mass (osteopenia) by decreasing bone formation. These observations indicate that Wnt signaling controls osteoblast differentiation and suggest that it may regulate bone formation in differentiated osteoblasts. Here, we study later events and find that stabilization of β-catenin in differentiated osteoblasts results in high bone mass, while its deletion from differentiated osteoblasts leads to osteopenia. Surprisingly, histological analysis showed that these mutations primarily affect bone resorption rather than bone formation. Cellular and molecular studies showed that β-catenin together with TCF proteins regulates osteoblast expression of Osteoprotegerin, a major inhibitor of osteoclast differentiation. These findings demonstrate that β-catenin, and presumably Wnt signaling, promote the ability of differentiated osteoblasts to inhibit osteoclast differentiation; thus, they broaden our knowledge of the functions Wnt proteins have at various stages of skeletogenesis.
2. [Wnt/β-Catenin Signaling in Mesenchymal Progenitors Controls Osteoblast and Chondrocyte Differentiation during Vertebrate Skeletogenesis](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1534580705001061)\
IF:9.616 \
cite_number:1414 \
**summary:** \
Chondrocytes and osteoblasts are two primary cell types in the skeletal system that are differentiated from common mesenchymal progenitors. It is believed that osteoblast differentiation is controlled by distinct mechanisms in intramembranous and endochondral ossification. We have found that ectopic canonical Wnt signaling leads to enhanced ossification and suppression of chondrocyte formation. Conversely, genetic inactivation of β-catenin, an essential component transducing the canonical Wnt signaling, causes ectopic formation of chondrocytes at the expense of osteoblast differentiation during both intramembranous and endochondral ossification. Moreover, inactivation of β-catenin in mesenchymal progenitor cells in vitro causes chondrocyte differentiation under conditions allowing only osteoblasts to form. Our results demonstrate that β-catenin is essential in determining whether mesenchymal progenitors will become osteoblasts or chondrocytes regardless of regional locations or ossification mechanisms. Controlling Wnt/β-catenin signaling is a common molecular mechanism underlying chondrocyte and osteoblast differentiation and specification of intramembranous and endochondral ossification.

## CRIP1 + Mesenchymal
1. [Subtractive gene expression profiling of articular cartilage and mesenchymal stem cells: serpins as cartilage-relevant differentiation markers](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1063458407001884)\
IF:5.454 \
cite_number:35 \
**summary:** 
* Objective \
Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) are a population of cells broadly discussed to support cartilage repair. The differentiation of MSCs into articular chondrocytes is, however, still poorly understood on the molecular level. The aim of this study was to perform an almost genome-wide screen for genes differentially expressed between cartilage and MSCs and to extract new markers useful to define chondrocyte differentiation stages.

* Methods \
Gene expression profiles of MSCs (n = 8) and articular cartilage from OA patients (n = 7) were compared on a 30,000 cDNA-fragment array and differentially expressed genes were extracted by subtraction. Expression of selected genes was assessed during in vitro chondrogenic differentiation of MSCs and during dedifferentiation of expanded chondrocytes using quantitative and semi-quantitative reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). Protein secretion was measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay.

* Results\
Eighty-seven genes were differentially expressed between MSCs and cartilage with a more than three-fold difference. Sixty-seven of them were higher expressed in cartilage and among them 15 genes were previously not detected in cartilage. Differential expression was confirmed for 69% of 26 reanalysed genes by RT-PCR. The profiles of three unknown transcripts and six protease-related molecules were characterised during differentiation. SERPINA1 and SERPINA3 mRNA expression correlated with chondrogenic differentiation of MSCs and dedifferentiation of chondrocytes, and SERPINA1 protein levels in culture supernatants could be correlated alike.

* Conclusions\
cDNA-array analysis identified SERPINA1 and A3 as new differentiation-relevant genes for cartilage. Since SERPINA1 secretion correlated with both chondrogenesis of MSCs and dedifferentiation during chondrocyte expansion, it represents an attractive marker for refinement of chondrocyte differentiation.

2. [Target disruption of ribosomal protein pNO40 accelerates aging and impairs osteogenic differentiation of mesenchymal stem cells](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0006291X15310081)\
IF:5.454 \
cite_number:6 \
Highlights 
* We generated a mouse model of MSC aging through pNO40 targeted disruption.
* We identified a cryptic splicing product of mouse pNO40 in ko tissues.
* MSCs from ko mice develop accelerated aging and osteogenic differentiation defect.
* pNO40 disruption in MSCs elicits high levels of ROS and elevated expression of CYP1B1.\
**summary:**\
pNO40/PS1D, a novel nucleolar protein, has been characterized as a core protein of eukaryotic 60S ribosome and at least two splicing forms of pNO40 mRNAs with alternative starting sites have been identified. Through production of knockout (ko) mice with either exon 2 (△E2), exon 4 (△E4) or △E2+E4 targeted disruption we identified a cryptic splicing product occurring in the ko tissues examined which in general cannot be observed in regular RT-PCR detection of wild-type (wt) animals. Among ko animals, △E4 null embryos exhibited prominent senescence-associated β-galactosidase (SA-β-gal) staining, a marker for senescent cells, in notochord, forelimbs and heart while bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) from △E4 null mice developed accelerated aging and osteogenic differentiation defects compared to those from wt and other isoform mutant mice. Examination of the causal relationship between pNO40 deficiency and MSC-accelerated aging revealed △E4 null disruption in MSCs elicits high levels of ROS and elevated expression levels of p16 and Rb but not p53. Further analysis with iTraq identified CYP1B1, a component of the cytochrome p450 system, as a potential molecule mediating ROS generation in pNO40 deficient MSCs. We herein established a mouse model of MSC aging through pNO40-targeted depletion and demonstrated the effects of loss of pNO40 on bone homeostasis.
3. [Gene Expression Analyses of Human Mesenchymal Stem Cells Cultured in Osteogenic Differentiation Medium for 3, 7, 14 and 21 Days by Genome Focus DNA Microarray and Real-time PCR](https://www.jstage.jst.go.jp/article/jarde/5/1/5_1_35/_article/-char/ja/) \
**summary:**\
The purpose of this study was to evaluate gene expressions of human mesenchymal stem cells (hMSC) cultured in osteogenic differentiation medium (OM) which contained ascorbic acid, β-glycerophosphate and dexamethasone for 0 (control), 3, 5, 7, 14 and 21 days by 8.5k Genome Focus DNA microarray and real-time PCR. It was confirmed by the DNA microarray analysis that 327 genes of hMSC were significantly up-regulated by culture in OM especially at 14 and 21 days while 156 genes were down-regulated. Up-regulated genes included osteoblast-related genes such as secreted phosphoprotein 1 (osteopontin) gene and hypothetical protein expressed in osteoblast gene, along with angiogenesis-related genes and cell cycle arrestrelated genes, while down-regulated genes contained stroma-related genes and keratin-related genes. Expressions of several osteogenic differentiation marker genes such as (down-regulated) osteonectin gene and (up-regulated) BMP2 gene were also evaluated by real-time PCR. Gene expression database identified here might contribute to dental tissue engineering.
## CKIP1 + Wnt
1. [The role of CKIP-1 in osteoporosis development and treatment](https://online.boneandjoint.org.uk/doi/full/10.1302/2046-3758.72.BJR-2017-0172.R1) \
IF:2.362 \
cite_number:4 
* Article focus\
An overview of the role of CKIP-1 in osteogensis and osteoclastogenesis and its relationship with osteoporosis.\
Reveal the possible treatment of osteoporosis through manipulating the biological function of CKIP-1.
* Key messages\
The structure and function of casein kinase 2-interacting protein-1 (CKIP-1).\
CKIP-1 negatively regulates bone formation through bone morphogenetic protein pathway.\
Progress in research on the role of CKIP-1 in osteoporosis treatment.
* Strengths and limitations\
This review summarizes the mechanism of action of CKIP-1 in the pathogenesis of OP and predicts CKIP-1 siRNA therapy may be a novel treatment option for OP. \
Whether CKIP-1 can interact with other signaling molecules to regulate the BMP pathway or regulate bone metabolism via other pathways remains unconfirmed. \
The osteoblast-targeted treatment using CKIP-1 siRNA has only been tested in animals and similar drugs have not yet been developed for human application. \
**summary:** \
Osteoporosis is a systemic skeletal disorder characterized by reduced bone mass and deterioration of bone microarchitecture, which results in increased bone fragility and fracture risk. Casein kinase 2-interacting protein-1 (CKIP-1) is a protein that plays an important role in regulation of bone formation. The effect of CKIP-1 on bone formation is mainly mediated through negative regulation of the bone morphogenetic protein pathway. In addition, CKIP-1 has an important role in the progression of osteoporosis. This review provides a summary of the recent studies on the role of CKIP-1 in osteoporosis development and treatment.
2. [CKIP-1 knockout offsets osteoporosis induced by simulated microgravity](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0079610716301195)\
IF:3.427\
cite_number:6\
**summary:** \
Casein kinase 2-interacting protein 1 (CKIP-1) is a negative regulator for bone formation. CKIP-1 knockout (KO) mice are very important for research on countermeasures to bone loss induced by space microgravity. Under simulated microgravity, the bone metabolism of CKIP-1 KO mice was different than that of wild-type (WT) mice. Many experiments all showed that the KO mice had significantly enhanced ossification in the tail suspension conditions, and the differences were closely related to the time the mice were exposed to the microgravity environment. Our results reveal the effect of CKIP-1 on the regulation of bone metabolism and osteogenesis in vivo and the ability of this gene to offset osteoporosis, and they suggest an approach to the treatment of osteoporosis induced by microgravity in space.
3. [CKIP-1 silencing promotes new bone formation in rat mandibular distraction osteogenesis](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S2212440316302668)\
IF:1.718\
cite_number:6\
**summary**\
Casein kinase 2-interacting protein 1 (CKIP-1) is a negative regulator for bone formation. CKIP-1 knockout (KO) mice are very important for research on countermeasures to bone loss induced by space microgravity. Under simulated microgravity, the bone metabolism of CKIP-1 KO mice was different than that of wild-type (WT) mice. Many experiments all showed that the KO mice had significantly enhanced ossification in the tail suspension conditions, and the differences were closely related to the time the mice were exposed to the microgravity environment. Our results reveal the effect of CKIP-1 on the regulation of bone metabolism and osteogenesis in vivo and the ability of this gene to offset osteoporosis, and they suggest an approach to the treatment of osteoporosis induced by microgravity in space.
4. [Effects of constrained dynamic loading, CKIP‑1 gene knockout and combination stimulations on bone loss caused by mechanical unloading](https://www.spandidos-publications.com/mmr/18/2/2506)\
IF:1.922\
cite_number: 0 \
**summary:**\
Mechanical stimulation plays an important role in maintaining the growth and normal function of the skeletal system. Mechanical unloading occurs, for example, in astronauts spending long periods of time in space or in patients on prolonged bed rest, and causes a rapid loss of bone mass. Casein kinase 2‑interacting protein‑1 (CKIP‑1) is a novel negative bone regulation factor that has been demonstrated to reduce bone loss and enhance bone formation. The aim of this study was to investigate the effect of constrained dynamic loading (Loading) in combination with CKIP‑1 gene knockout (KO) on unloading‑induced bone loss in tail‑suspension mice. The blood serum metabolism index [alkaline phosphatase (ALP) activity and osteocalcin (OCN) levels], tibia mechanical behavior (including bone trabecular microstructure parameters and tibia biomechanical properties), osteoblast‑related gene expression [ALP, OCN, collagen I and bone morphogenetic protein‑2 and osteoprotegerin (OPG)] and osteoclast‑related gene expression [receptor activators of NF‑kB ligand (RANKL)] were measured. The results demonstrated that mice experienced a loss of bone mass after four weeks of tail suspension compared with a wild type group. The mechanical properties, microarchitecture and mRNA expression were significantly increased in mice after Loading + KO treatment (P<0.05). Furthermore, compared with loading or KO alone, the ratio of OPG/RANKL was increased in the combined treatment group. The combined effect of Loading + KO was greater than that observed with loading or KO alone (P<0.05). The present study demonstrates that Loading + KO can counter unloading‑induced bone loss, and combining the two treatments has an additive effect. These results indicate that combined therapy could be a novel strategy for the clinical treatment of disuse osteoporosis associated with space travel or bed rest.
## DKK1 + CRIP1 + osteoporosis
1. [High Throughput Transcriptome Profiling of Lithium Stimulated Human Mesenchymal Stem Cells Reveals Priming towards Osteoblastic Lineage](https://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0055769) \
IF: 2.766 \
cite_number:48 \
**summary:** \
Human mesenchymal stem cells (hMSCs) present in the bone marrow are the precursors of osteoblasts, chondrocytes and adipocytes, and hold tremendous potential for osteoregenerative therapy. However, achieving directed differentiation into osteoblasts has been a major concern. The use of lithium for enhancing osteogenic differentiation has been documented in animal models but its effect in humans is not clear. We, therefore, performed high throughput transcriptome analysis of lithium-treated hMSCs to identify altered gene expression and its relevance to osteogenic differentiation. Our results show suppression of proliferation and enhancement of alkaline phosphatase (ALP) activity upon lithium treatment of hMSCs under non-osteogenic conditions. Microarray profiling of lithium-stimulated hMSC revealed decreased expression of adipogenic genes (CEBPA, CMKLR1, HSD11B1) and genes involved in lipid biosynthesis. Interestingly, osteoclastogenic factors and immune responsive genes (IL7, IL8, CXCL1, CXCL12, CCL20) were also downregulated. Negative transcriptional regulators of the osteogenic program (TWIST1 and PBX1) were suppressed while genes involved in mineralization like CLEC3B and ATF4 were induced. Gene ontology analysis revealed enrichment of upregulated genes related to mesenchymal cell differentiation and signal transduction. Lithium priming led to enhanced collagen 1 synthesis and osteogenic induction of lithium pretreated MSCs resulted in enhanced expression of Runx2, ALP and bone sialoprotein. However, siRNA-mediated knockdown of RRAD, CLEC3B and ATF4 attenuated lithium-induced osteogenic priming, identifying a role for RRAD, a member of small GTP binding protein family, in osteoblast differentiation. In conclusion, our data highlight the transcriptome reprogramming potential of lithium resulting in higher propensity of lithium “primed” MSCs for osteoblastic differentiation.
# DKK1 + osteoporosis
1. [Osteoporosis: now and the future](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0140673610623495)\
IF:53.254\
cite_number:1318\
**summary:**\
Osteoporosis is a common disease characterised by a systemic impairment of bone mass and microarchitecture that results in fragility fractures. With an ageing population, the medical and socioeconomic effect of osteoporosis, particularly postmenopausal osteoporosis, will increase further. A detailed knowledge of bone biology with molecular insights into the communication between bone-forming osteoblasts and bone-resorbing osteoclasts and the orchestrating signalling network has led to the identification of novel therapeutic targets. Novel treatment strategies have been developed that aim to inhibit excessive bone resorption and increase bone formation. The most promising novel treatments include: denosumab, a monoclonal antibody for receptor activator of NF-κB ligand, a key osteoclast cytokine; odanacatib, a specific inhibitor of the osteoclast protease cathepsin K; and antibodies against the proteins sclerostin and dickkopf-1, two endogenous inhibitors of bone formation. This overview discusses these novel therapies and explains their underlying physiology.
2. [Biomarkers for Osteoporosis Management](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/BF03256280)\
IF:2.716 \
cite_number:234 \
**summary:** \
Osteoporosis is a systemic disease characterized by low bone mass and microarchitectural deterioration of bone tissue, resulting in an increased risk of fracture. While the level of bone mass can be estimated by measuring bone mineral density (BMD) using dual X-ray absorptiometry (DXA), its measurement does not capture all the risk factors for fracture. Quantitative changes in skeletal turnover can be assessed easily and non-invasively by the measurement of serum and urinary biochemical markers; the most sensitive markers include serum osteocalcin, bone specific alkaline phosphatase, the N-terminal propeptide of type I collagen for bone formation, and the crosslinked C- (CTX) and N- (NTX) telopeptides of type I collagen for bone resorption. Advances in our knowledge of bone matrix biochemistry, most notably of post-translational modifications in type I collagen, are likely to lead to the development of new biochemical markers that reflect changes in the material property of bone, an important determinant of bone strength. Among those, the measurement of the urinary ratio of native (α) to isomerized (β) CTX — an index of bone matrix maturation — has been shown to be predictive of fracture risk independently of BMD and bone turnover.\
In postmenopausal osteoporosis, levels of bone resorption markers above the upper limit of the premenopausal range are associated with an increased risk of hip, vertebral, and nonvertebral fracture, independent of BMD. Therefore, the combined use of BMD measurement and biochemical markers is helpful in risk assessment, especially in those women who are not identified as at risk by BMD measurement alone. Levels of bone markers decrease rapidly with antiresorptive therapies, and the levels reached after 3–6 months of therapy have been shown to be more strongly associated with fracture outcome than changes in BMD. Preliminary studies indicate that monitoring changes of bone formation markers could also be useful to monitor anabolic therapies, including intermittent parathyroid hormone administration and, possibly, to improve adherence to treatment. Thus, repeated measurements of bone markers during therapy may help improve the management of osteoporosis in patients.
3. [Sclerostin and DKK1 in postmenopausal osteoporosis treated with denosumab](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1002/jbmr.1681)\
IF:6.314\
cite_number:80v\
**summary:**
The bone mass benefits of antiresorbers in postmenopausal osteoporosis are limited by the rapid coupling of decreasing bone resorption with bone formation. Wnt signaling is involved in this coupling process during treatment with bisphosphonates, whereas its role during treatment with the anti‐receptor activator of NF‐κB ligand (RANKL) antibody denosumab is unknown. The study population includes patients participating in a placebo‐controlled trial lasting 36 months: 19 women were on placebo and 24 on subcutaneous 60 mg denosumab every 6 months. All measured parameters (serum C‐terminal telopeptide of type I collagen [sCTX], serum bone alkaline phosphatase [bAP], Dickkopf‐1 [DKK1], and sclerostin) remained unchanged during the observation period in the placebo group. sCTX and bAP were significantly suppressed by denosumab treatment over the entire follow‐up. Denosumab treatment was associated with significant (p < 0.05) increases (28% to 32%) in serum sclerostin over the entire study follow‐up. Serum DKK1 significantly decreased within the first 6 months with a trend for further continuous decreases, which reached statistical significance (p < 0.05) versus placebo group from the 18th month onward. The changes in DKK1 were significantly and positively related with the changes in sCTX and bAP and negatively with hip bone mineral density (BMD) changes. The changes in sclerostin were significantly and negatively related only with those of bAP. The changes in bone turnover markers associated with denosumab treatment of postmenopausal osteoporosis is associated with significant increase in sclerostin similar to those seen after long‐term treatment with bisphosphonates and significant decrease in DKK1. This latter observation might explain the continuous increase over 5 years in BMD observed during treatment of postmenopausal osteoporosis with denosumab. © 2012 American Society for Bone and Mineral Research.
4. [Potential Role for Therapies Targeting DKK1, LRP5, and Serotonin in the Treatment of Osteoporosis](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s11914-011-0086-8)\
IF: 3.726 \
cite_number:39 \
**summary:** \
Osteoporosis is a common disorder in which diminished bone mass leads to progressive microarchitectural skeletal deterioration and increased fracture risk. Our understanding of both normal and pathologic bone biology continues to evolve, and with it our grasp of the highly coordinated relationships between primary bone cells (osteoblasts, osteoclasts, and osteocytes) and the complex molecular signals bone cells use to integrate signals derived from other organ systems, including the immune, hematopoietic, gastrointestinal, and central nervous systems. It is now clear that the Wnt signaling pathway is central to regulation of both skeletal modeling and remodeling. Herein, we discuss components of the Wnt signaling pathway (DKK1, an endogenous soluble inhibitor of Wnt signaling) and LRP5 (a plasma membrane-localized Wnt co-receptor) as potential future targets for osteoporosis therapy. Finally, we discuss the current controversial role for serotonin in skeletal metabolism, and the potential role of future therapies targeting serotonin for osteoporosis treatment.
5. [Involvement of WNT/β-catenin Signaling in the Treatment of Osteoporosis](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s00223-013-9749-z)\
IF:3.293\
cite_number:137 \
**summary：** \
Osteoblast differentiation is predominantly regulated by the WNT/β-catenin signaling (canonical WNT pathway), which, together with bone morphogenetic proteins, acts as the master regulator of osteogenesis. The recent characterization of the canonical WNT pathway in the regulation of bone modeling and remodeling provided important insights for our understanding of the pathophysiology of a number of conditions and of the mechanism of action of hormones or drugs with important effect on bone metabolism. This review is mainly focused on the growing therapeutic implications of these new findings. WNT/β-catenin signaling plays a key role in bone tissue by determining the differentiation of stem cells into mature osteoblasts rather than into chondrocytes and adipocytes. Its regulation is predominantly driven by the production of two WNT signaling antagonists: sclerostin (SOST) and Dickkopf-related protein 1 (DKK1). The most proximate regulator of SOST expression by osteocytes and its serum levels is bone mechanical load. SOST expression is increased with advancing age, by glucocorticoid treatment and during treatment with antiresorptive agents such as bisphosphonates and denosumab, while it is decreased by parathyroid hormone excess or administration of estrogens. Correlation between DKK1 serum levels and bone formation in various pathological conditions or during osteoporosis treatment has been reported. Inhibitors of the negative regulators of WNT/β-catenin signaling (“inhibiting the endogenous inhibitors”) are potential candidates for the prevention and treatment of bone loss. Inactivating monoclonal antibodies against SOST appears to be the most attractive strategy because SOST is the only component of the WNT pathway expressed almost exclusively by osteocytes.
6. [New developments in biological markers of bone metabolism in osteoporosis](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S8756328214001938)\
IF:4.455 \
cite_number:113 \
Highlights:
* Serum periostin may reflect periosteal metabolism.
* Periostin, sclerostin and sphingosine-1-phosphate are associated with fracture risk.
* Circulating microRNAs are a novel class of biomarker in osteoporosis.
**summary:**\
Over the last 15 years several biological markers of bone turnover have been developed with increased specificity and sensitivity. In osteoporosis clinical studies, the IOF and IFCC organizations have recently recommended the measurements of serum type I collagen N-propeptide (PINP) and the crosslinked C-terminal telopeptide (serum CTX) as markers of bone formation and bone resorption, respectively. However these markers have some limitations including a lack of specificity for bone tissue, their inability to reflect osteocyte activity or periosteal apposition. In addition they do not allow the investigation of bone tissue quality an important determinant of skeletal fragility. To address these limitations, new developments in markers of bone metabolism have been recently achieved. These include assays for periostin, a matricellular protein preferentially localized in the periosteal tissue, sphingosine 1-phosphate, a lipid mediator which acts mainly on osteoclastogenesis and the osteocyte factors such as sclerostin and FGF-23. Recent studies have shown an association between the circulating levels of these biological markers and fracture risk in postmenopausal women or elderly men, although data require confirmation in additional prospective studies. Finally, recent studies suggest that the measurements of circulating microRNAs may represent a novel class of early biological markers in osteoporosis. It is foreseen that with the use of genomics and proteomics, new markers will be developed to ultimately improve the management of patients with osteoporosis.

7. [Wnt signalling in osteoporosis: mechanisms and novel therapeutic approaches](https://www.nature.com/articles/nrendo.2013.154)\
IF:20.265 \
cite_number: 148\
**summary:**\
Osteoporosis is a skeletal disorder characterized by bone loss, which results in architectural deterioration of the skeleton, compromised bone strength and an increased risk of fragility fractures. Most current therapies for osteoporosis stabilize the skeleton by inhibiting bone resorption (antiresorptive agents), but the development of anabolic therapies that can increase bone formation and bone mass is of great interest. Wnt signalling induces differentiation of bone-forming cells (osteoblasts) and suppresses the development of bone-resorbing cells (osteoclasts). The Wnt pathway is controlled by antagonists that interact either directly with Wnt proteins or with Wnt co-receptors. The importance of Wnt signalling in bone formation is indicated by skeletal disorders such as sclerosteosis and van Buchem syndrome, which are caused by mutations in the gene encoding the Wnt antagonist sclerostin (SOST). Experiments in mice have shown that downregulation or neutralization of Wnt antagonists enhances bone formation. Phase II clinical trials show that 1-year treatment with antisclerostin antibodies increases bone formation, decreases bone resorption and leads to a substantial increase in BMD. Consequently, Wnt signalling can be targeted by the neutralization of its extracellular antagonists to obtain a skeletal anabolic response.
8. [Update on Bone Anabolics in Osteoporosis Treatment: Rationale, Current Status, and Perspectives](https://academic.oup.com/jcem/article/97/2/311/2836245) \
IF:5.789\
cite_number: 260\
**summary:**
Osteoporosis is defined as low bone mineral density associated with skeletal fractures secondary to minimal or no trauma, most often involving the spine, the hip, and the forearm. The decrease in bone mineral density is the consequence of an unbalanced bone remodeling process, with higher bone resorption than bone formation. Osteoporosis affects predominantly postmenopausal women, but also older men. This chronic disease represents a considerable medical and socioeconomic burden for modern societies. The therapeutic options for the treatment of osteoporosis have so far comprised mostly antiresorptive drugs, in particular bisphosphonates and more recently denosumab, but also calcitonin and, for women, estrogens or selective estrogen receptor modulators. These drugs have limitations, however, in particular the fact that they lead to a low turnover state where bone formation decreases with the decrease in bone-remodeling activity. In this review, we discuss the alternative class of osteoporosis drugs, i.e. bone anabolics, their biology, and the perspectives they offer for our therapeutic armamentarium. We focus on the two main osteoanabolic pathways identified as of today: PTH, the only anabolic drug currently on the market; and activation of canonical Wnt signaling through inhibition of the endogenous inhibitors sclerostin and dickkopf1. Each approach is based on a different molecular mechanism, but most recent evidence suggests that these two pathways may actually converge, at least in part. Whereas recombinant human PTH treatment is being revisited with different formulations and attempts to regulate endogenous PTH secretion via the calcium-sensing receptor, antibodies to sclerostin and dickkopf1 are currently in clinical trials and may prove to be even more efficient at increasing bone mass, possibly independent of bone turnover. Each of these anabolic approaches has its own limitations and safety issues, but the prospects of effective anabolic therapy for osteoporosis are indeed bright.
9. [Bone turnover markers: use in osteoporosis](https://www.nature.com/articles/nrrheum.2012.86)\
IF:15.661\
citr_number:151\
**summary:**\
Osteoporosis is a skeletal disorder characterized by bone loss, which results in architectural deterioration of the skeleton, compromised bone strength and an increased risk of fragility fractures. Most current therapies for osteoporosis stabilize the skeleton by inhibiting bone resorption (antiresorptive agents), but the development of anabolic therapies that can increase bone formation and bone mass is of great interest. Wnt signalling induces differentiation of bone-forming cells (osteoblasts) and suppresses the development of bone-resorbing cells (osteoclasts). The Wnt pathway is controlled by antagonists that interact either directly with Wnt proteins or with Wnt co-receptors. The importance of Wnt signalling in bone formation is indicated by skeletal disorders such as sclerosteosis and van Buchem syndrome, which are caused by mutations in the gene encoding the Wnt antagonist sclerostin (SOST). Experiments in mice have shown that downregulation or neutralization of Wnt antagonists enhances bone formation. Phase II clinical trials show that 1-year treatment with antisclerostin antibodies increases bone formation, decreases bone resorption and leads to a substantial increase in BMD. Consequently, Wnt signalling can be targeted by the neutralization of its extracellular antagonists to obtain a skeletal anabolic response.

10. [New Horizons in Osteoporosis](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3555696/)\
IF:53.254\
cite_number:38\
**summary:**\
Osteoporosis is a common disease characterised by a systemic impairment of bone mass and microarchitecture that results in fragility fractures. With an ageing population, the medical and socioeconomic impact of osteoporosis in general and postmenopausal osteoporosis in particular, will increase further. A detailed knowledge of bone biology with molecular insights into the communication between bone-forming osteoblasts and bone-resorbing osteoclasts and the orchestrating signalling network has led to the identification of novel therapeutic targets. Based on this, therapeutic strategies have been developed aimed at (I) inhibiting excessive bone resorption and by (II) increasing bone formation. The most promising novel treatments include denosumab, a monoclonal antibody against receptor activator of NF-κB ligand, a key osteoclast cytokine, odanacatib, a specific inhibitor of the osteoclast protease cathepsin K, and antibodies against the proteins sclerostin and dickkopf-1, two endogenous inhibitors of bone formation. This review provides an overview on these novel therapies and explains their underlying physiology.

# Wnt + Dickkopf-1 
1. [The Role of the Wnt-Signaling Antagonist DKK1 in the Development of Osteolytic Lesions in Multiple Myeloma](https://www.nejm.org/doi/full/10.1056/NEJMoa030847)\
IF:79.258 \
cite_number:1444 \
**summary:** \
* BACKGROUND
Myeloma cells may secrete factors that affect the function of osteoblasts, osteoclasts, or both.
* METHODS
We subjected purified plasma cells from the bone marrow of patients with newly diagnosed multiple myeloma and control subjects to oligonucleotide microarray profiling and biochemical and immunohistochemical analyses to identify molecular determinants of osteolytic lesions.
* RESULTS
We studied 45 control subjects, 36 patients with multiple myeloma in whom focal lesions of bone could not be detected by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and 137 patients in whom MRI detected such lesions. Different patterns of expression of 57 of approximately 10,000 genes from purified myeloma cells could be used to distinguish the two groups of patients (P<0.001). Permutation analysis, which adjusts the significance level to account for multiple comparisons in the data sets, showed that 4 of these 57 genes were significantly overexpressed by plasma cells from patients with focal lesions. One of these genes, dickkopf 1 (DKK1), and its corresponding protein (DKK1) were studied in detail because DKK1 is a secreted factor that has been linked to the function of osteoblasts. Immunohistochemical analysis of bone marrow–biopsy specimens showed that only myeloma cells contained detectable DKK1. Elevated DKK1 levels in bone marrow plasma and peripheral blood from patients with multiple myeloma correlated with the gene-expression patterns of DKK1 and were associated with the presence of focal bone lesions. Recombinant human DKK1 or bone marrow serum containing an elevated level of DKK1 inhibited the differentiation of osteoblast precursor cells in vitro.
* CONCLUSIONS
The production of DKK1, an inhibitor of osteoblast differentiation, by myeloma cells is associated with the presence of lytic bone lesions in patients with multiple myeloma.
2. [High Bone Density Due to a Mutation in LDL-Receptor–Related Protein 5](https://www.nejm.org/doi/full/10.1056/nejmoa013444)\
IF:79.258 \
cite_number: 1617\
* BACKGROUND 
Osteoporosis is a major public health problem of largely unknown cause. Loss-of-function mutations in the gene for low-density lipoprotein receptor–related protein 5 (LRP5), which acts in the Wnt signaling pathway, have been shown to cause osteoporosis–pseudoglioma.

* METHODS 
We performed genetic and biochemical analyses of a kindred with an autosomal dominant syndrome characterized by high bone density, a wide and deep mandible, and torus palatinus.

* RESULTS
Genetic analysis revealed linkage of the syndrome to chromosome 11q12–13 (odds of linkage, >1 million to 1), an interval that contains LRP5. Affected members of the kindred had a mutation in this gene, with valine substituted for glycine at codon 171 (LRP5V171 ). This mutation segregated with the trait in the family and was absent in control subjects. The normal glycine lies in a so-called propeller motif that is highly conserved from fruit flies to humans. Markers of bone resorption were normal in the affected subjects, whereas markers of bone formation such as osteocalcin were markedly elevated. Levels of fibronectin, a known target of signaling by Wnt, a developmental protein, were also elevated. In vitro studies showed that the normal inhibition of Wnt signaling by another protein, Dickkopf-1 (Dkk-1), was defective in the presence of LRP5V171 and that this resulted in increased signaling due to unopposed Wnt activity.

* CONCLUSIONS
The LRP5V171 mutation causes high bone density, with a thickened mandible and torus palatinus, by impairing the action of a normal antagonist of the Wnt pathway and thus increasing Wnt signaling. These findings demonstrate the role of altered LRP5 function in high bone mass and point to Dkk as a potential target for the prevention or treatment of osteoporosis.

